Hello everyone and welcome back.
This is actually you from the future.
Taking a quick little detour in our currently scheduled course outline to mention how you can update
your packages.
So because I'm in the future the version of react that I'm seeing that just got released is different
from the version that we are using throughout this course right now.
Right now the latest version is sixteen point ten point two as of the time of the recording of this
video.
In the course though the version of react that we're using is sixteen point eight point six.
It's a very minor version change but there are a couple of new things that came out in that react version.
But even then I think it's important to understand how we can update our packages as well as see some
other issues that might come up that are very easy to resolve.
I'm going to show you in this lesson how you can do so with both yarn or NPM as your main package manager.
But we're going to start with you first.
So the first thing to do is check what version of whatever packages that you want to upgrade are that
you are currently running.
The easiest way to do so is simply using inside of your terminal yarn list.
So if you type in your own list and then the name of the packages.
So for me I'm checking out react react Dom and react scripts I will see that react on and react out
sixteen point eight point six and react scripts as three point 0 point.
Oh I know that react on and react can be upgraded to sixteen point ten point two which is the latest
version and react scripts to three point two point zero.
Now instead of directly modifying the value here there is another thing that we can do to make sure
that whenever we either want to upgrade we can always use the latest version.
Now the way to do that is simply to go to our package Doc Jason inside of our project.
So inside of our package that Jason you'll see that I have inside of these two dependencies for react
and react on sixteen point eight point six and sixteen point eight point six and three point 0 point
0 so if you have used create react app to create your application as you've been following on this course
you may see that there's this little carat symbol in front of your version all that means is that this
is a rule that tells whatever package manager we're using whether it be Ana NPM when ever it sees NPM
upgrade or yarn upgrade to update to the latest stable non breaking version.
So if you see this carat then you see that whenever you installed your package even if it's six sixteen
point eight point six It will try and get the latest version.
In my case though because I did not have it whenever I run yarn install or npm install it will find
just the exact version which is sixteen point eight point six.
So I'm just going to add this carrot in to all these locations here here and here.
And what this will now do is whenever I run yarn upgrade it will try and upgrade with these new rules.
The issue that you will encounter if you change your package that Jason and then try to simply run your
and upgrade is that you will see that you have an outdated log file please run your on a solid try again.
This is perfectly fine.
All this means is that you aren't upgrading is not going to work here because we updated the rules in
our package not Jason.
Well we added that carrot.
Instead we have to run yarn install instead now.
While this is installing this is actually a good time to take a look at this lock file that gets mentioned
because I'm sure some of you may or may not have noticed that there is a yarn thought lock or a package
that lock inside of your application folder.
So what is this lock file on this lock file.
Is it isn't auto generated file by either NPM or a yarn that locks the version of all the packages inside
of our application within a specific range based on the rules that we set inside of package.
Jason.
So the rules being simply what we saw here as our version number.
If I use this carrot.
It's saying that I want it to be at least sixteen point eight point six or greater but not breaking
what that means is that when we had it before without this carrot the yarn log file was generated saying
that the version of react and react on and react scripts are locked to exactly that version.
Now that we've added this carrot it gives more flexibility which means the yard lock fall is out of
date and needs to be updated.
And this lock file only updates whenever you run yarn install.
So why do we need a lock file the lock file is simply there so that if multiple people are working on
this application they are all using versions of these dependencies that don't conflict with each other
because maybe somebody is running react 17 someone is running react 16 and there is a difference in
features that might be breaking in the application that your unlock file just ensures that everybody
is using a consistent version of these dependencies but with that after we ran your install we generated
a new lock file and from now on you can simply run your upgrade whenever you want to upgrade these dependencies
and we can just double check to make sure the version of these packages that we got are updated.
So if I run your yarn list react react and react scripts I'll see that they're now at sixteen point
ten point two for react on and react as well as three point two point 0 4 react scripts.
So with this I have now updated my packages to the latest version.
Now let's see how we do this and NPM so here I have a separate repository that is a complete clone of
our last repository.
The only difference is that in this one I'm using NPM as my package manager instead of yarn.
All I have to do in order to update these packages is run NPM update.
The main difference here is that NPM update will force the versions to update to their latest versions.
However it's still good to be explicit in our rules and package.
Jason so that we know what kind of versioning we want to do.
So first let's just check what versions we have actually installed for react react on and react scripts.
Is that a yarn list.
We use NPM list and then we type out the actual package names the same way.
I had a typo there
so here with this it's just like yarn before we see that our versions are sixteen point eight point
six for react and react on entry point 0 0 point 0 4 react scripts.
So in order to update this we can go into our package our Jason and we can add Tilda in front of react
react and react scripts just to be explicit and then we simply run NPM update.
One thing I want to note is that even if you don't add the tilde it will update the version numbers
and it will overwrite your package.
Jason File to show the latest version so NPM update and then npm install are both a little different
because npm install sometimes will skip over certain versions if it doesn't see that it's a major update.
The safest way to make sure that you actually do update all your versions if you want to is run NPM
update it takes a little longer.
So let's just fast forward through the section so here we'll see already that it's told us that it's
updated react on to sixteen point ten point two react scripts the three point two point 0 and react
to sixteen point ten point two now.
You'll also see down here that it says found zero vulnerabilities.
So what are our vulnerabilities you might see this number change sometimes whether you see it as a warning
and you get hub.
Or maybe when you do something with your NPM it'll show you that there's certain vulnerabilities vulnerabilities
are essentially at these minor security concerns.
Sometimes they're major.
Most of the time they're minor.
That has to do with either a dependency that you have installed or a dependency that your packages depend
upon that you yourself don't know that you also installed.
So for example react probably has something like 60 other packages that it depends upon.
And one of those might have a security concern.
The easiest way to actually fix this inside of NPM is to run NPM audit fix and this command will go
through and update the versions to a version of a package where it doesn't have the security concern
anymore.
Unfortunately with yarn This is not so easy.
While yarn does have access to a yarn audit all it will do is we'll audit all of the packages as well
as those packages dependency packages to see if there's any vulnerabilities in any of them.
If it does it will list them to you and show you at what severity.
But for you to actually update it there's no such easy command as NPM audit fix in yard.
Well you'll have to do is manually install and upgrade all of those packages that you see with a vulnerability.
If you do use yarn as your main package manager so that's just one thing to highlight as the main difference
between NPM and yarn as well as how the commands work.
So hopefully with this you now know how to update your packages whether you're using yarn or NPM as
well as fix security vulnerabilities and with that good luck and I'll see everyone in the next lesson.